readme.md, before:

# Artificial Intelligence Prolog Labs

## Lab 1: Intro to the grid world

Hello! Welcome to Week 2 of Artificial Intelligence. Congratulations for making it through Week 1. This week, you will be introduced to the grid world, learn how to move around it and ultimately create a spiral.

### Possible Queries 

The following queries have been exported from the library code:

| Query Name                  | Description                               |
|-----------------------------|-------------------------------------------|
| start                       | Initiate the web server                   |
| shell                       | Open the command shell                    |
| my_agent(-A)                | Returns the ID of your Agent              |
| ailp_grid_size(-N)          | Returns the size of the grid              |
| get_agent_position(+A,-Pos) | Returns the position of Agent A           |
| agent_do_moves(+A,+L)       | Makes Agent A perform the list of moves L |

### How to run?

This is one of the most important parts of the lab. In order to run the grid world, you need open `ailp.pl` using swipl. This week we are doing `lab grid` so we will pass that as a command line argument (e.g. `swipl ailp.pl lab grid`).
 
Upon loading you will likely see a lot of warnings
about singleton variables, this is normal and because the functions in `lab_grid_12345` have not been implemented. 

Next, Type in `start.` and hit enter to start the webserver. If you press `Y`, then the webpage will open in your default browser. **Hit the run button on the webpage before you continue.**

We will use a shell to initialise the grid so type in `shell.` and then `setup.` in the following command prompt. (While the main prolog prompt is `?-`, in the shell it will look like `?`).

After the `setup/0` has finished, you can exit the shell using either `stop.`,`CTRL+D` or `CTRL+C` then (a)bort at the prompt.

### Identifying your Agent

At the top left of the grid, you will be able to see a coloured shape. This is your agent. For the first task in this lab, find a query that allows you to identify your agent and their current position.

### Create predicate `m/1`

The first step of moving around the grid world is defining the directions that we are able to move. They are `n`,`e`,`s` and `w`. For the first exercise in this lab, you will need to define the predicate `m(A)` such that it is true when `A` is a valid move.

### Create predicate `on_board/1`

Next, We need to create a predicate that tells us if a position is on the board. Positions are stored as a compound term `p(X,Y)` where both X and Y range from 1 to the grid size inclusive.

TIP: You can use the predicate `ailp_grid_size/1` to find the size of the grid.

### Create predicate `pos_step/3`

For this step we need to find the new position after an agent has made a possible step (although we don't need to check the validity yet!).  

### Create predicate `new_pos/3`

We are now able to combine the previous steps together to find the new position after a move has been made as well as to check that the move is valid. `new_pos(Pos,M,NPos)` should be true if moving from `Pos` in direction `M` will lead to `NPos` and `NPos` is on the board.

### Create predicate `complete/1`

The predicate `complete(L)` should be true if the Length of L is equal to the number of cells in the grid. The size of the grid **SHOULD NOT** be hardcoded.

### Create predicate `spiral/1`

The final section of this lab is to implement the predicate `spiral(L)` which will move the agent from the start position `p(1,1)` towards the center of the grid in a spiral pattern. L should be the list of steps that are taken by the agent to reach the center **including** the start position (You can test this using `complete/1`) 

TIP: In order for the agent to actually move, you will need to use `agent_do_moves(A,L)` where A is the identifier of your Agent and L is a path **that does not include** your current position.
## Lab 2: Identity Loss

For this weeks lab, we will be using a wikipedia API to uncover the identity of an actor based only on links from their wikipedia page. We will also be implementing a simple breadth first search. 

### Possible Queries

The following queries have been exported from the library code:

| Predicate				   						| Meaning                                                               				|
|-----------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `actor(-Actor)`								| return each possible secret random actor identity  (e.g. `'Billy Bob Thornton'`)		|
| `wp(+Title,-WikiText)`					| connect to Wikipedia page with given Title and return its WikiText    				|
| `wp(+Title)`								| connect to Wikipedia page with given Title  and print its WikiText 					|
| `wt_link(+WikiText, -Link)`				| return any Link contained in the given WikiText										|
| `agent_ask_oracle(+A, +Orac,+Qu,-Ans)`| This is used to question the oracle. If the Agent's Question is `link` then the Oracle's Answer will be a random link from the Wikipedia page whose title is the (name of the) secret random actor identity |
| `test`										| test if `find_identity/1` successfully returns correct identity in all possible cases	|

### How to run?

Run using `swipl ./ailp.pl lab identity` 

The file `lab_identity_12345.pl` will automatically be consulted and should be the place that your work is done. There is no need to follow the steps to start the webserver this week (although once you have created `find_identity/1` you can use `test/0` to check that your solution works).

### Create predicate `find_links_by_actor/2`

We will start by creating a predicate to find all the links on a given actors wikipedia page. This predicate will take the form of `find_links_by_actor(-Actor,+Links)`


### Create predicate `find_identity/1`

For the next stage, we need to implement `find_identity(+Actor)` to discover the secret actor (which is randomly chosen each time the program is run). `find_identity/2` will use `agent_ask_oracle(oscar,o(1),link,L)` to gain a link `L` that belongs to the secret actor. This link can be used to eliminate certain actors until eventually there is only one possible actor left. Make sure that `find_identity/1` is deterministic (it only returns one answer)!

TIP - The use of `findall/3`, `bagof/3` or `include/3` is reccomended.

## Lab 3: Breadth first search

For the final prolog lab, you will need to implement a breadth first search in order to find an oracle (shown as a red square). A breadth first search is a slow algorithm but will always find the shortest path. This lab may be tough, but assuming you have kept up with the other labs, then you will be able to do it! (there is also plenty of support on offer from TA's)

### Possible Queries

Map adjacent
Get agent position
etc

### How to run

Run using `swipl ./ailp.pl lab search`. The file `lab_search_12345.pl` will automatically be consulted and should be the place that your work is done. 

This time you will need to follow the steps from Lab 1 to run the webserver (`start.`, click run on the website, `shell.`, `setup.`). You can use `search.` while in the shell as a shortcut for `search_bf` outside of the shell.

### Exploring `map_adjacent/3`

After you have loaded the lab you will notice that you are now in a more complicated version of the world from Lab 1. The world is randomly generated at runtime but will have at most 25 Walls (in black) and exactly 1 oracle (in red). 

The query `map_adjacent(+Pos,?AdjPos,?OID)` must receive a position although it is optional whether or not to give an AdjPos/OID. OID will always be a member of `[agent, empty, t(X),o(X)]`.

For this section, try to write queries that:
    
    1. Find all the adjacent cells around position P (giving multiple solutions)
    2. Find all the adjacent cells around position P
    (as a List) 
    3. Find **ONLY** the empty cells around position P
    4. Find the empty cells next to your agent
    5. Find the OID of the oracle

NOTE: These queries don't need to work generally, it is enough that they only work in your current version of the grid (i.e, it is ok to instantiate things like P)

### Create predicate `complete/1`

As the goal of the task is to move next to an oracle, the predicate complete(+Pos) must be defined in order to know when the task is done.

Commit message:

Finished first draft of labs

readme.md, after:

# Artificial Intelligence Prolog Labs

## Lab 1: Intro to the grid world

Hello! Welcome to Week 2 of Artificial Intelligence. Congratulations for making it through Week 1. This week, you will be introduced to the grid world, learn how to move around it and ultimately create a spiral.

### Possible Queries 

The following queries have been exported from the library code:

| Query Name                  | Description                               |
|-----------------------------|-------------------------------------------|
| start                       | Initiate the web server                   |
| shell                       | Open the command shell                    |
| my_agent(-A)                | Returns the ID of your Agent              |
| ailp_grid_size(-N)          | Returns the size of the grid              |
| get_agent_position(+A,-Pos) | Returns the position of Agent A           |
| agent_do_moves(+A,+L)       | Makes Agent A perform the list of moves L |

### How to run?

This is one of the most important parts of the lab. In order to run the grid world, you need open `ailp.pl` using swipl. This week we are doing `lab grid` so we will pass that as a command line argument (e.g. `swipl ailp.pl lab grid`).
 
Upon loading you will likely see a lot of warnings
about singleton variables, this is normal and because the functions in `lab_grid_12345` have not been implemented. 

Next, Type in `start.` and hit enter to start the webserver. If you press `Y`, then the webpage will open in your default browser. **Hit the run button on the webpage before you continue.**

We will use a shell to initialise the grid so type in `shell.` and then `setup.` in the following command prompt. (While the main prolog prompt is `?-`, in the shell it will look like `?`).

After the `setup/0` has finished, you can exit the shell using either `stop.`,`CTRL+D` or `CTRL+C` then (a)bort at the prompt.

### Identifying your Agent

At the top left of the grid, you will be able to see a coloured shape. This is your agent. For the first task in this lab, find a query that allows you to identify your agent and their current position.

### Create predicate `m/1`

The first step of moving around the grid world is defining the directions that we are able to move. They are `n`,`e`,`s` and `w`. For the first exercise in this lab, you will need to define the predicate `m(A)` such that it is true when `A` is a valid move.

### Create predicate `on_board/1`

Next, We need to create a predicate that tells us if a position is on the board. Positions are stored as a compound term `p(X,Y)` where both X and Y range from 1 to the grid size inclusive.

TIP: You can use the predicate `ailp_grid_size/1` to find the size of the grid.

### Create predicate `pos_step/3`

For this step we need to find the new position after an agent has made a possible step (although we don't need to check the validity yet!).  

### Create predicate `new_pos/3`

We are now able to combine the previous steps together to find the new position after a move has been made as well as to check that the move is valid. `new_pos(Pos,M,NPos)` should be true if moving from `Pos` in direction `M` will lead to `NPos` and `NPos` is on the board.

### Create predicate `complete/1`

The predicate `complete(L)` should be true if the Length of L is equal to the number of cells in the grid. The size of the grid **SHOULD NOT** be hardcoded.

### Create predicate `spiral/1`

The final section of this lab is to implement the predicate `spiral(L)` which will move the agent from the start position `p(1,1)` towards the center of the grid in a spiral pattern. L should be the list of steps that are taken by the agent to reach the center **including** the start position (You can test this using `complete/1`) 

TIP: In order for the agent to actually move, you will need to use `agent_do_moves(A,L)` where A is the identifier of your Agent and L is a path **that does not include** your current position.
## Lab 2: Identity Loss

For this weeks lab, we will be using a wikipedia API to uncover the identity of an actor based only on links from their wikipedia page. We will also be implementing a simple breadth first search. 

### Possible Queries

The following queries have been exported from the library code:

| Predicate				   						| Meaning                                                               				|
|-----------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `actor(-Actor)`								| return each possible secret random actor identity  (e.g. `'Billy Bob Thornton'`)		|
| `wp(+Title,-WikiText)`					| connect to Wikipedia page with given Title and return its WikiText    				|
| `wp(+Title)`								| connect to Wikipedia page with given Title  and print its WikiText 					|
| `wt_link(+WikiText, -Link)`				| return any Link contained in the given WikiText										|
| `agent_ask_oracle(+A, +Orac,+Qu,-Ans)`| This is used to question the oracle. If the Agent's Question is `link` then the Oracle's Answer will be a random link from the Wikipedia page whose title is the (name of the) secret random actor identity |
| `test`										| test if `find_identity/1` successfully returns correct identity in all possible cases	|

### How to run?

Run using `swipl ./ailp.pl lab identity` 

The file `lab_identity_12345.pl` will automatically be consulted and should be the place that your work is done. There is no need to follow the steps to start the webserver this week (although once you have created `find_identity/1` you can use `test/0` to check that your solution works).

### Create predicate `find_links_by_actor/2`

We will start by creating a predicate to find all the links on a given actors wikipedia page. This predicate will take the form of `find_links_by_actor(-Actor,+Links)`


### Create predicate `find_identity/1`

For the next stage, we need to implement `find_identity(+Actor)` to discover the secret actor (which is randomly chosen each time the program is run). `find_identity/2` will use `agent_ask_oracle(oscar,o(1),link,L)` to gain a link `L` that belongs to the secret actor. This link can be used to eliminate certain actors until eventually there is only one possible actor left. Make sure that `find_identity/1` is deterministic (it only returns one answer)!

TIP - The use of `findall/3`, `bagof/3` or `include/3` is reccomended.

## Lab 3: Breadth first search

For the final prolog lab, you will need to implement a breadth first search in order to find an oracle (shown as a red square). A breadth first search is a slow algorithm but will always find the shortest path. This lab may be tough, but assuming you have kept up with the other labs, then you will be able to do it! (there is also plenty of support on offer from TA's)

### Possible Queries

Map adjacent
Get agent position
etc

### How to run

Run using `swipl ./ailp.pl lab search`. The file `lab_search_12345.pl` will automatically be consulted and should be the place that your work is done. 

This time you will need to follow the steps from Lab 1 to run the webserver (`start.`, click run on the website, `shell.`, `setup.`). You can use `search.` while in the shell as a shortcut for `search_bf` outside of the shell.

### Exploring `map_adjacent/3`

After you have loaded the lab you will notice that you are now in a more complicated version of the world from Lab 1. The world is randomly generated at runtime but will have at most 25 Walls (in black) and exactly 1 oracle (in red). 

The query `map_adjacent(+Pos,?AdjPos,?OID)` must receive a position although it is optional whether or not to give an AdjPos/OID. OID will always be a member of `[agent, empty, t(X),o(X)]`.

For this section, try to write queries that:
    
1. Find all the adjacent cells around position P (giving multiple solutions)
2. Find all the adjacent cells around position P
(as a List) 
3. Find **ONLY** the empty cells around position P
4. Find the empty cells next to your agent
5. Find the OID of the oracle

NOTE: These queries don't need to work generally, it is enough that they only work in your current version of the grid (i.e, it is ok to instantiate things like P)

### Create predicate `complete/1`

As the goal of the task is to move next to an oracle, the predicate complete(+Pos) must be defined in order to know when the task is done. This predicate should be true if the position is adjacent to an oracle

### Create the predicate `search_bf/0`

You need to implement `search_bf/0` as well as any other supporting predicates that you want to use. `search_bf.` should use a breadth first search to navigate the agent to the oracle. This is a more complex task than previous but these tips should help guide you:  

- You may want to find the path to the oracle and then make all the moves at once using `agent_do_moves/2`.
- Keeping track of which cells have already been visited will make sure that you don't check cells multiple times.
- Test often, And use `trace/0` if you aren't sure why something isn't working.
- Don't be afraid to ask for help!
